
Version Control System
------- ------- ------
> Version control is the management of changes to documents, computer programs, large web sites, and other collections of information. These changes are usually termed as "versions".
> Version control is a system that records changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can recall specific versions later. 

Storing Versions
------- --------
> Snapshots of all versions are properly documented and stored.
> Versions are also named accurently

Backup
------
In any case if your central server crashes, a backup is always avaliable in your local servers.

Analyze:
--------
	> VCS provides you with proper description
	> What exactly was changes
	> When it was changed
	And hence, you can analyze how your projects evolved between versions.


Git & GitHub
------------

Git
---
Git is a Distributed Version Control tool that supports distributed non-linear workflows by providing data assurance for developing quality software.
Git is a version control system that lets you manage and keep track of your source code history. 

Features of Git: Distributed, Compatible, Non-linear, Branching, Lightweight, Speed, Open Source, Reliable, Secure, Economical.  

Repository
----------
A directory or storage space where you projects can live. It can be local to a folder on your computer, or it can be a storage space on GitHub or another online host.
You can keep code files, text files, image files, you name it, inside a repository.

There are two types of repositories:
1. Central Repository : Tpically located on remote server
			Exclusively consists of ".git" repository folder
			Meant for team to share and exchange data

2. Local Repository  :	Typically located on local machine
			Resides as a .git folder inside your project's root
			Only admin of the machine can work with this repo

GitHub
------
GitHub is a cloud-based hosting service that lets you manage Git repositories. 

If you have open-source projects that use Git, then GitHub is designed to help you better manage them.


Git Operations & Commands
--- ---------- - --------

Creating repositories : git init

Making changes	      :	git status
			git add
			git commit

Syncing repositories  : git add origin
			git push
			git pull

Parallel development  : git branch
			git merge
			git rebase







…or create a new repository on the command line

echo "# Git" >> README.md
git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "first commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/----gitname-------/Git.git
git push -u origin main

…or push an existing repository from the command line

git remote add origin https://github.com/g-----gitname------/Git.git
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main



git --version

git config --global user.name " "

git config --global user.email " "

git config --list

git help config
git config --help

git init
[rm -rf .git]

git add <file>

git status

git commit

git push

git pull

git clone

git log
